Algorithm doc updates (#112)
osu-tournament-rating/otr-docs: docs/Rating Framework/Rating Calculation/Rating Calculation Overview.md

Finally, these two sets of changes are combined at a weighted average of $90\%$:$10\%$. This result is then scaled by game count so that longer matches have a more substantial impact on rating changes. More concretely, the actual change stored in a player's rating history is

$$
\begin{equation}
    \text{rating change} = \left(\frac{\text{\# games}}{8}\right)^{0.5}\cdot (0.9 \cdot \text{rating change from method A} + 0.1 \cdot \text{rating change from method B}).
\end{equation}
$$

Volatility changes are calculated similarly but use a quadratic mean instead.

> [!note]
> This two-part process reflects how match performance is not only determined by raw scores, but also the degree to which players must "fill in" for their team members. Many of the choices of constants, such as the weighting of $90\%$:$10\%$ and the game correction constant $0.5$, are not absolutely essential to the validity of the rating algorithm; we make a particular choice here to have something concrete.
>

> > Other additional weighting factors, such as a higher weight for official tournaments like the osu! world cups, were considered but rejected for simplicity and ease of maintenance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Other weights, such as a higher weight for official tournaments, were considered but decided against in favor of not over-complicating the algorithm.
```

There are various parameters that can be adjusted when setting up the model (see [the code](https://github.com/injae/openskill-rs/blob/main/src/model/plackett_luce.rs#L12) or read the paper for more detailed calculations). In words, $\mu$ and $\sigma$ are the rating and volatility mentioned above, $\beta$ is an "extra volatility" term for calculating head-to-head matchup probabilities, $\kappa$ is used as part of a check that volatility stays positive, and $\tau$ adds a small amount to variance (squared volatility) after each match. Finally, the function $\gamma$ is a dampening factor which causes volatility to decrease less significantly when matchups are large. Intuitively, this can be thought of as not treating a match with $10$ players as affecting rating as much as $9$ separate 1v1s against each opponent.

> The Plackett-Luce model allows for arbitrary scalings of parameters, though the OpenSkill documentation recommends that $\sigma$ starts out as $1/3$ of $\mu$. We choose a scaling here so that the distribution looks somewhat similar to chess (solely for aesthetic appeal), though we do choose varying [[Initial Ratings|initial ratings]] based on osu! rank. Other than this, we keep the default scaling of all parameters except the volatility increase factor $\tau$ and dampening factor $\gamma$, which we completely remove. This is because $\tau$ and $\gamma$ do not show up in the original mathematical derivation for this model and were instead included to improve simulations where $\sigma$ decreased too rapidly. We instead resolve this issue through [[Rating Decay|decay]].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Plackett-Luce model allows for arbitrary scalings of parameters, though the OpenSkill documentation recommends that $\sigma$ starts out as $1/3$ of $\mu$. We choose a scaling here so that the distribution looks somewhat similar to chess (solely for aesthetic appeal), though we do choose varying [[Initial Ratings|initial ratings]] based on osu! rank. Other than this, we keep the default scaling of all parameters except the volatility increase factor $\tau$ and dampening factor $\gamma$, which we completely remove. This is because $\tau$ and $\gamma$ do not show up in the original mathematical derivation for this model and were instead included to improve situations where $\sigma$ decreased too rapidly. We instead resolve this issue through [[Rating Decay|decay]].
```

typo?

Remember that different players specialize in different skillsets and have skillcaps at different levels, so please interpret TR not as an absolute skill comparison between two players. In particular, o!TR identifies when people **frequently win** relative to others in their rank range or skill level, so if you see a player with what seems like an unusually high rating, we recommend that you look at their tournament history and check if they're consistently the top performer in their matches.

### Interpretation of Method B

> The inclusion of Method B in the rating algorithm should be thought of more as a bonus for plying in the lobby, rather than as an estimate of the score you would receive if you were to ply in a match. It is included in this way so that rating changes are still essentially zero-sum (up to differences in players' volatility), and also so that someone who plays in every game and always gets the highest score in the lobby will always gain rating no matter what. Such a bonus is necessary so that pure specialists are not buffed too much by only showing up for their specific skillsets.

Author: I'll add the footnote and rephrase the "score estimate" to be more clear!

> A common concern brought up with Method B is that in very lopsided matches (e.g. a seed 1 vs seed 32 matchup), specialist players on the seed 1 team will lose a disproportionate amount of rating due to being benched against lower-performing teams. This is an instance where o!TR aims to measure "performance, not skill." While it is true that the 5th player on a seed 1 team would typically score higher than the 5th player on a seed 32 team, in some sense this does not actually matter for performance in matches, and "performance" partially captures the value that players contribute towards causing a win.

Reviewer: (Quoting from my suggestion)

> due to being benched against lower-performing teams.

Are they benched because the maps they're good at simply aren't being picked?

> This is an instance ...

Don't we always aim to measure performance over skill? I'm not sure if this kind of call out is the right phrasing.

> While it is true that the 5th player on the dominant team would typically score higher than the 5th player on the weaker team, in some sense this does not actually matter for performance in matches, and performance partially captures the value that players contribute towards causing a win.

I don't really see what this is trying to convey, particularly `in some sense this does not actually matter for performance in matches`.
